All right, we're back.
And so I owe you a little schooling on how to do another type of loop to iterate over a collection so
that we can remove items from that collection.
And so we're going to do that now.
So I'm going to leave this loop here for a little bit so that we can use it kind of as a reference.
And what we're going to end up doing here is we're going to revert back a little bit to the more traditional
style of loop.
So this is the enhanced for loop where we can just give it a collection and then it gives us the individual
elements of that collection.
And this is the preferred loop in in most scenarios if you must manually loop over items in a in a collection.
This is the preferred way to do it unless you need to remove items from the collection while you are
iterating over them.
In that case, you you can't do it this way, as we have just seen.
So for thoroughness, I'm going to show you how to do that, specifically if you need to remove items
or elements while you're iterating over them.
OK.
So we will use another for loop.
This will be closer to the more traditional for loop, though, using the semicolons.
So for and now the variable that we're going to create in the first little area of this for statement,
though, this is going to be a variable called an iterator.
OK.
And in my previous lessons example where I told you to imagine that there are two threads one thread
is looping over the elements in the collection, while another thread was trying to steal elements out
at the same time.
And that's why we got that exception.
In that example, this thread that's looping over the elements, that guy is an iterator.
OK?
It's a little guy who knows how to just iterate over the elements in a collection, and we're going
to actually create an instance of that guy.
OK, so we'll visualize him sort of like, OK.
So the way that we do that is we can get an iterator from a collection.
Collections have the ability to to create and iterate or for us.
And so that's what we're going to put in this first little bit here.
OK.
So we want, in fact, that maybe the easy way to access this would be to refer to the employee's collection
like so and then period and then iterator this second thing here.
OK.
Be careful because there's this there's a bunch of other things here.
We don't want those right now.
We just want iterator, plain old iterator.
And so from here, we can do this in a couple of ways.
We could go to the beginning of this little bit here and then create an instance of an an iterator like
so and and we'll call it.
That's a very common name for an iterator in this type of example.
However, there's one thing we might want to do.
We might want to also use generics to specify what type of objects this iterator iterates over, so
we could actually use the diamond operator here.
And then we can specify that this is going to iterate over instances of I employee like so.
So we could do it.
We could do this.
Now we're not done with this for a loop.
I'm just showing you this first little section of the for loop, OK?
By the way, this is a very old this is a fairly old school way of looping over collections, and it
is not usually recommended.
But if you have to remove items from a collection while you're looping over the collection, this is
the way to do that.
And so now we can go to the end of this four loop statement here and we need a semicolon, right?
Because that's just the first little block of what goes into the traditional for loop, right?
The variable that you're going to use to refer back to individual elements within the loop right on
each iteration.
The next bit is where we tell the for loop how long it should loop, like what is the criteria for when
it should stop and to do this with an iterator.
What we use is the actual iterator itself.
I.T Dot and then iterator has a method called has NEC.
So it's a question is there a next item or is there a next element that we should iterate over?
And so if we put that in there, that's how the Loop will know to stop because when there are no more
elements in the collection to iterate over.
That method will return a Boolean false and then the loop will stop, and then finally, we need one
more semicolon, which would normally be the place where we increment.
But in this case, we're going to just leave it out.
And if you may recall, back when we originally learned for loops, you can actually leave any of these
three sections of the for loop blank, depending on what you're trying to do if you leave the second
one blank.
That implies that you may want that loop to just run forever, or you plan to kill the loop yourself
manually by brake using a brake statement or something like that.
All right.
So now if we come over here and create a body for the for loop now, the rest of this will be pretty
similar to what we've got here.
So except and in iterator is not an actual worker, OK?
It's an iterator.
It's the guy who kind of counts the workers or iterates over the workers.
OK.
So to actually get our hands on a worker now, we need to pull that out of the iterator himself, if
you will.
All right.
And so we can access I.T. dot next.
And the next method will actually give us the current element or object that the iterator is pointing
at or is is on right.
So each time this four loop loops each iteration, each time it iterates the its next method will give
us the next element in the collection.
OK.
So it that next.
If I capture that, I'm going to call this worker, which is equivalent to what we did in the loop down
here.
OK.
I employee.
And then we've got a worker.
And now most of this will be the same, so now we can test if the worker is an instance of an employee
and yada yada yada.
I'll type it out, though.
So if the worker is an instance of let's two spaces their employee, then we can go ahead and cast it
right.
So will do employee temp worker equals and then will cast employee from worker like so.
OK, so now we've got an employee that we can work with.
And then if the removal names that contains temp worker dot first name, then.
Now, now we're ready to remove this current worker that we're iterating over from the collection and
the way we do that.
As I said in the previous lesson, you can't have this one thread, which is basically the iterator
who's iterating over these items and then have another thread come in and try to steal items out.
That's not the way to do that.
The way to do it is to ask this iterator guy right here to remove items himself as he's looping over
them or iterating over them.
And so the way we do that is simply by calling a method on the iterator object.
It does not remove.
There you go.
That's how you remove an item or an element from a collection while you're iterating over the collection.
In this traditional type of loop?
OK, now don't worry, there's better ways to do this for sure.
But this is very traditional and you can see code that looks a lot like this in every single company
in the world where Java code is written.
OK.
So that's why it's important for you to know this pattern or be familiar with it.
OK?
And this is actually the type of problem that you may encounter in a coding test or something like that
where they'll, you know, maybe ask you to.
They'll point you down a road to cause you to write a for loop like this and then imply that you should
remove an element from the list and you can't do it in this way.
You have to use an iterator if you're going to do any kind of old school style of looping at all.
OK.
So this is how you do this.
OK, so now that we've got this code here that knows how to remove anybody who's in this list whose
first name is in this list?
Maybe what we'll do is we'll use this loop down here simply to continue to print out the people in the
collection and total up their salaries, which means that we don't need any of this bit anymore.
So I'm going to remove those lines.
OK.
So let me let me get rid of a few gaps here.
All right.
So in other words, this bit here.
Is just focusing on removing the undesirable.
OK.
Well, that's what I should name this the undesirables that will five.
All right.
So this is removing the undesirables.
And now here we're just printing out whoever is left right.
So let's run this and see what we get.
Hopefully, we should get less than eight point six million and we should notice that a few people are
missing.
So let's run this.
Oh, yeah, there we go, six point eight million now.
And let's see, who did we remove we removed Fred to.
Let's go to the top.
So there's there's Fred, there's our lambda object and no Fred to just skips right over to Fred three.
So that's looking good.
And then Barney four should be gone.
Barney Barney to Barney three, Barney five So Barney four is missing.
And then Fred.
Oh, and then oh, sorry, I for some reason, I skipped over Wilma.
Wilma five, Yet no Wilma five there.
So we can see now that this code did indeed remove the so-called undesirables from our total list right
now in real life.
One thing that I haven't been showing a whole lot of here is I'd probably go ahead and just grab this
whole entire block and extract that out into a method.
Let me show you what that would look like real quick.
So I would do a an option command M for method or control alt m.
And then I'm being asked what I want to call my new method that I'm about to extract that all out into.
And I don't know.
I might call it something like remove unde undie undesirables.
OK.
And then just hit return.
And now the ABC chose to make this method, such that it passes in the employee collection and the list
of names to be removed, right?
And so now where did that go?
It just moved it down here.
So just turned all of that little block of code into its own method.
And the reason I would probably do this in real life is just to make my code a little more readable.
OK.
Remember, this is all one big, huge method, this main method.
And in real life, I typically don't like to allow my methods to get much more than, I don't know ten
lines long, maybe 10 15 somewhere around in there.
There's lots of little places in here where I could really clean this up a bit.
This this loop here would be another good one.
I could call that something like, I don't know, tabulate or whatever, you know, calculate tabulate
employees or something like something like that.
Even this bit here create undesirable list, right?
Oftentimes, wherever you've got a loop of code, that's not a bad place where you might want to extract
code of some sort.
This bit here, actually this bit here, I might even, I don't know, select all of this, including
the creation of the list in the first place, right?
And then extract the method and call it something like create employees, write or populate employees
or something like that.
And it would be turn.
A list of employees.
Right.
So I just want to kind of trigger your thinking here to show you that in real life, you really don't
want to just make these really long methods.
That's kind of procedural.
This I'm I haven't been extracting out a lot of methods here because I didn't want to be jumping back
and forth too much.
I was afraid that that might confuse you.
Sometimes it's nice while I'm teaching to be able to just see all in one screen.
This block, you know this block here and then that block there so that we can kind of compare what's
going on.
Especially that was nice.
While I had this method, while I had the contents of this method, which was basically just a loop.
And then this loop here, right?
It was nice to see those two different styles of loop at the same time.
But in real life, we really I very much recommend that you try to keep your methods relatively short,
you know, 10 to 20 lines, if possible.
That's my own arbitrary number, honestly.
But I'll say this without even naturally trying to keep my methods short.
My methods have a tendency to be not much more than 10 to 20 light.
OK.
So just keep that in mind.
All right.
And so that's going to wrap up this lesson.
We did some really cool things.
Oh, one more thing I want to mention, though I recognize that this might look pretty intimidating
to some of you, although hopefully it's getting to be more understandable, right, as we just see
these patterns encode them up more and more.
So one thing I want to tell you, though, about working with Iterator is I will say that iterating
over collections using an old school iterator like this is getting to be somewhat old fashioned.
Number one, that's the first thing I want to mention.
This is a little bit old fashioned if you just need to iterate over the elements in a collection.
It is strongly recommended not to use this pattern at all.
It is strongly recommended to use the enhanced for loop.
That's guidance from the creators of of Java themselves.
OK.
This is the preferred way to do that.
If you must do a somewhat manual looping over looping or iterating over a collection, OK?
It's really as far as I can think, the only time you ever need an iterator, pretty much the only time
is again for like the fifth time that I'm saying it now is only if you need to remove items from the
collection while you are iterating over them.
We are going to learn and even better and easier way to do all of this.
Actually, everything we're doing here can be done much, much simpler using lambdas.
OK.
But I just wanted to point that out.
So, you know, don't lose sleep if you're thinking like you need to go out of your way to, like,
become an expert and memorize this pattern.
Familiarize yourself with it added to the back of your toolbox in your brain somewhere.
But you know, if you ever need to do this, just the thing that I want you to memorize is not this
exact.
Every line of code that I'm doing here.
What you should memorize is if I need to remove an element from a collection while I'm iterating over
that collection, I need to use an iterator.
That's the thing you need to memorize.
You can Google.
How do you how do I do an iterator with a for loop?
Right?
You can Google that and find this pattern, right?
And then the only other thing that's making this particular implementation maybe look a little more
convoluted than you might like it to be is the fact that I also am using a conditional here to test
whether or not the iterated element is an instance of employee.
In many cases, you might not need to do that.
We just had to do it here because there's at least one case where it's not an employee.
And so we don't want to.
We don't want to do work on that right.
And also one more thing, we have an opportunity here to use our pattern matching.
Do you do you remember we learned about pattern matching a little bit and I completely forgot to make
use of it myself here.
Do you see where we could apply that technique in this code?
Take a moment and take a look and see if you can find it.
OK, so we can apply pattern matching because we're using the instance of keyword right here.
Look at what we've got here.
We are checking to see that the worker is an instance of employee, and if it is, then we are casting
the worker to an employee of type employee, right?
And then we call it temp worker.
We can we can do this quicker and easier with a pattern match, right?
This is just me reviewing things that we've learned before, and this is nice.
Now this will only work from Java version 14 and up, and actually even in 14 and 15.
It will only work if you enable the preview features of those of those versions of Java.
It's only officially standard in Java 16, but at any rate.
So we're we're casting this worker to a new type of employee and calling it temp worker.
And so we can actually do this easier by simply putting our cursor here where we're doing the instance
of employee and then typing temp workers.
So in other words, we're naming a variable right here.
And what happens is this whole entire line here is not even needed anymore.
That's what the pattern matching is is enabling us to do.
And we learned this a little bit ago, OK?
But yeah, this is a great place where we can use that and save ourselves one line of code, which I
don't think it's a good line of code to be able to save ourselves from.
OK.
So just wanted to take a quick opportunity to remind you that this is a great place where we could use
the pattern matching?
All right.
Now I'll wrap it up and I'll see you in the next one.